               Step 1: Obtain Ubuntu

Go to the official Ubuntu website (https://ubuntu.com/) using your web browser.
Click on the "Download" tab.
Choose the version of Ubuntu you want to install (e.g., Ubuntu Desktop, Ubuntu Server) and click on the corresponding "Download" button.
Select the appropriate flavor (e.g., LTS or the latest release) and click on the "Download" button again.
                  Install Ubuntu
Restart your computer and make sure the USB drive is connected.
Enter the BIOS or UEFI settings of your computer by pressing the appropriate key during startup (e.g., F2, Del, Esc).
In the BIOS/UEFI settings, change the boot order to prioritize the USB drive.
Save the changes and exit the BIOS/UEFI settings.
Your computer should now boot from the USB drive and display the Ubuntu installer.
Select your language and click on the "Install Ubuntu" button.
Choose your keyboard layout and click on the "Continue" button.
On the "Updates and Other Software" screen, you can choose to install updates and third-party software during the installation process. Make your selection and click on "Continue."
On the "Installation Type" screen, select the installation option that suits your needs. If you're new to Ubuntu, the default option of "Erase disk and install Ubuntu" is recommended. You can also choose manual partitioning if you have specific requirements.
Follow the on-screen instructions to set up your time zone, keyboard layout, and user information.
Once you've entered all the necessary information, click on the "Install" button to begin the installation process.
The installer will copy the necessary files and configure your system. This may take some time.
After the installation is complete, you'll be prompted to restart your computer. Remove the USB drive before restarting.

Desktop Overview:
When you log in to Ubuntu, you'll see the desktop environment. The default desktop for Ubuntu is GNOME. It has a clean and intuitive interface.
Application Launcher:
To launch applications, click on the "Activities" button at the top-left corner of the screen or press the "Super" key (Windows key). This will open the application launcher.
Dash:
The dash is the main area of the application launcher. You can search for applications, files, and settings using the search bar.
System Settings:
To access system settings, click on the "Activities" button and search for "Settings." System Settings allows you to customize various aspects of your Ubuntu system.
Files and Folders:
Ubuntu uses the Files application (formerly known as Nautilus) as the default file manager. It provides a simple and intuitive interface for managing files and folders.
Terminal:
The terminal is a powerful tool for executing commands and performing system operations. To open the terminal, use the shortcut Ctrl + Alt + T or search for "Terminal" in the application launcher.
To lauch the openlane command prompt type in the terminal where the OpenLane folder is
cd OpenLane
make mount
     ####commands

To create the design type the following command in the terminal
./flow.tcl -design <design_name> -init_design_config -add_to_designs -config_file config.tcl

To run openlane interactively
You may run the flow interactively by using the -interactive option:
./flow.tcl -interactive

A tcl shell will be opened where the openlane package is automatically sourced:

Then type the follwoing

% package require openlane

Then, you should be able to run the following main commands:

Any tcl command.

prep -design <design> -tag <tag> -config <config> -init_design_config -overwrite

similar to the command line arguments, design is required and the rest is optional

run_synthesis
run_floorplan
run_placement
run_cts
run_routing
 
The above commands can also be written in a file and passed to flow.tcl:
./flow.tcl -interactive -file <file>

